.TH L0P4MAP 1 "May 2026" "l0p4map 0.2.0" "Network Security Tools"
.SH NAME
l0p4map \- professional network monitoring and visualization tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B l0p4map
[\fB\-V\fR]
.br
.B l0p4map
.B scan
[\fB\-t\fR \fISUBNET\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIFORMAT\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIPATH\fR]
[\fB\-q\fR]
.br
.B l0p4map
.B gui
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B l0p4map
combines ARP host discovery, full nmap integration, and a real-time
interactive network topology graph in a dark PyQt6 GUI.
Designed for security researchers and network administrators who need
fast, detailed visibility into their infrastructure.
It runs as a GUI by default, and also exposes a CLI for scripting and
automation.
.PP
Root privileges are required for ARP scanning and packet capture.
.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B Scanning
ARP scan with local IEEE OUI vendor lookup; hostname resolution via
reverse DNS, NetBIOS and mDNS/Avahi; TTL-based OS fingerprinting; TCP
port probing; raw SNMP sysDescr query without external libraries.
.TP
.B Role detection
Automatic classification of each host: gateway, router, access point,
switch, PC, Apple, mobile, Raspberry Pi, virtual machine, or unknown.
.TP
.B Topology graph
Hierarchical vis.js graph with subnet bounding boxes, typed edges, Force
Atlas layout toggle, live auto-refresh, custom node labels, PNG and CSV
export.
.TP
.B nmap integration
SYN scan, UDP scan, OS detection, service version enumeration, NSE
scripts, banner grabbing (HTTP, SMB, FTP, SSH, SSL).
.TP
.B Attack Surface
Deep nmap + vulners scan per host: exposed ports, CVSS scoring, direct
NVD links, CSV export.
.TP
.B Traffic Analyser
Real-time packet capture with per-device stats, protocol coloring,
filter bar, double-click to port scan, CSV export.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan
Scan the local subnet (or a specified target) and print discovered hosts.
.TP
.B gui
Launch the graphical interface (default when no command is given).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-target " " \fISUBNET\fR
Target subnet, CIDR range, or IP address.
Defaults to the auto-detected local subnet.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Output format: \fBtable\fR (default), \fBjson\fR, or \fBcsv\fR.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-file " " \fIPATH\fR
Write output to \fIPATH\fR instead of stdout.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress progress messages on stderr.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Launch the GUI:
.PP
.nf
    sudo l0p4map
.fi
.PP
Scan the local subnet with table output:
.PP
.nf
    sudo l0p4map scan
.fi
.PP
Scan a specific subnet and output JSON:
.PP
.nf
    sudo l0p4map scan -t 192.168.1.0/24 -o json
.fi
.PP
Save results to a CSV file:
.PP
.nf
    sudo l0p4map scan -o csv -f results.csv
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/share/l0p4map/core/oui.csv
Local IEEE OUI database used for MAC vendor lookup.
.TP
.I /usr/share/l0p4map/ui/assets/
GUI assets including the vis.js topology engine.
.SH NOTES
Only use l0p4map on networks you own or have explicit written permission
to test.
Unauthorized network scanning may be illegal in your jurisdiction.
.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License v3.0 or later.
.SH AUTHOR
HaxL0p4 <haxl0p4@proton.me>
.br
.UR https://github.com/HaxL0p4/L0p4Map
.UE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nmap (1),
.BR wireshark (1),
.BR arp-scan (1)
